That we would to do. So, you
can figure out where we are.
So, it's what you have on your
sort of up there in my nose.
Hopefully, we do a better job
of taking notes this time
because they were really, I
basically did them what what I
wrote down is what I put down
on the notes and if you see
brackets around them, it means
I try to do a little
interpretation but otherwise,
that's what we're on the
necessary. Um so,
really
quickly when we on the
when it says page one and I'm
going to try to open this up on
that document. Try really
quickly. They identify the
priorities that people's talked
about athletics but then it was
combined with that particular
and then the SRO, the school
resource of officer but I'm
going to jump. There's the
possible solutions that people
talked about. Um can the
community help raise funds? Can
community donate funds? Um
Booster Club raise funds? Can
we group, created, fundraising?
Can it can Can that group
created fundraising? What would
that have to look like? And we
use this as an example. The
Priest Michael Education
Foundation raises fund and then
they pay for the preschool and
I think they play for Artsmart
up there and so we set up a
there's a separate fund set up
and then they donate to the
school district We talked about
the title nine additional cost,
clean up, oversight
maintenance, what things might
You know, just the basic matrix
that Jared put together. Um
state trips, a lot of cost
related to these. Question was,
if one sport receives fund, can
it run in can it run under if
you have something for boys,
you gotta do something for
girls
talks about coaches, maybe
volunteering their time forum.
I think that has to do with
Does anybody remember what that
point had to do?
Okay and
then we said talked
about reaching out to
Grangeville to see what they
did how they were to trust if
they had no transportation for
extra
and I also reached out to an
update in a second. So, coaches
in charge, coaches So, we
looked at parents at Twin
Falls. Twin Falls does provides
transportation
I'm just realizing where am I?
Um can you see where I am, I
guess. I'm on on there and then
we talked about potentially
grants, you know, received like
Ann Chamberlain discussed, you
know, we talked about her dance
program and then she's been
doing that raising funds for
that dance program ever since
I've been around. So, quite a
few years and to do is to look
at see what cost look like with
Jess head coaches. Again, we
are looking at the custodial or
everyone cleanup. So, we do
second sodium fee. And then,
again, I'm not sure what River
City was. It was kind of out
there. It's a volleyball.
Volleyball, okay and then, were
possible the funds revenue
received goes into the
ninety-nine funds which is the
student body funds and there's
also funds collected at the
game. So, there's a couple of
places. Um has to be and there
was a question about, has to be
title nine sports. Um and that
should have been have to be,
have to have fund everything
that should be F U N Ds versus
F U N. Um if sports are funded
at what cost since Levi didn't
pass, can people go to the
district office and just donate
taxes? Um that was sort of
Stephie was kind of no. She was
a little concerned about how
that might work and it it would
be better to do a collection
and then do the donation versus
individual donations. It might
be much more difficult to to
track. Is there a fiscal agent
that could provide the vehicle
to collect dollars and then
plan paid if community vents.
So, the idea was if there is a
such as a one of somebody
wanted to reserve the the
quartz in here or the
auditorium over at the junior
high or the gym at the junior
high Um you know, pay pay to
use and that the thought was to
look at that form to reserve
the facility and see if there's
a way to address that. So, on
page seven, we looked at Jared
did revise. Um he did update
the extra co-curricular and I'm
going to These are the to-do
and then I'll go back. Jared
did revise it. I was going to
look at the Grangeville Twin
Falls Agreement or whatever
that looked like and it's a
little different. Then, we look
at account to donate dollars
to. Pay to play, look at that
form, potential grants, look at
proposed positions, not funding
this coming year and the
comment was made, don't make
sure whatever comes from the
budget doesn't detract from
support staff and reinstate
positions. Those were things
that people were concerned
about. Um kind of an additional
pieces that came up at the end
of the meeting were Bonners
Ferry, I think, was charging
two hundred dollars a kid or
six, $200 a kid, $600 a family,
businesses were sponsoring,
sports, and somebody mentioned
**** you know, rather do
crowdfunding than ask his
family to pay and then we were
brought to Moss and Paws and
I'm not sure if I spelled that
right, was brought up. Booster
Club was fought up and then
worried about not having all
the dollars at the beginning
and. Was why is July too short
of a time to run a levy? And
then there's the combination of
combining PTO for high school
and junior high and then that
mixed in with the booster club.
So just any additional feedback
on all of that at this point.
Um that people are and remember
open. Discussion. Maybe we
should start on page possible
solutions because some of us
we've gone through and talked
to people. Start on page two.
Two? Okay. Um
is it okay if I update? Unless
anybody has anything so we
quickly do it. I'm sorry. Go
ahead. Okay. Um so I'll I'll
pull up Jared to quickly in a
second but the research look at
Grangeville. I did talk to
Grangeville. Um their business
manager. And they
what they end up doing They go,
they just went to a four-day
school week last year they
don't
They don't pay for
transportation for
extracurricular. They don't
trade and what they do do is
collect $2 and 50 cents a mile
for each this board. So, if
there's a name going over down
to Timberlake, they'll figure
out it's $2 dollars and fifty
cents and they'll figure out
the mileage. These the
individual sport has to raise
the money. So, they've got an
individual account. They raise
the money. Um basically, the
school district will pay for
the cost of the bus and then
the sport has their own account
to take under the student body
and under their student body
they'll then they'll raise the
money and then they'll get it
back to school It usually
breaks even. For the most part,
it's long enough to cover the
time driver, things like that.
Um so, they don't have any
release form. They don't have,
they, they were told by their
attorney not to they didn't
want to get the right language
for this. Um
They have not been able to come
up with the language for them
to be able to cover the
liability correctly in order to
have the parents. So, that's
where they, they were saying
is, the attorney strongly
advised not to Ford was
going to take away
transportation for the
co-curricular to reduce costs.
Um there's this, they were
strongly advised not to come up
with a form. Um they're still
trying to work out the language
of it. Still a risk of
liability to school district
because sport connected with
the school. So, there was there
was that disconnect. Whereas
Twin Falls or so what they came
down with is they would charge
$2 and 50 cents a mile and go
that route. What happens is
doesn't cover everything but
for the most part for long
enough like if we were probably
going, I didn't get the exact
distance but if it was long
enough, then it would have in
terms of brainchild They don't,
as I said, they they cover
their extracurricular. They
cover their transportation.
They do have a form on site
that would to to drive. It
would have to be what they said
when I talked to their director
of operations who covers
facilities, transportation, and
ID IT today. He said that they
With that one, they They have a
liability form on their site
under their 8, 000 series
policies. Um most of the 99% of
the time the school transports
their kids in the yellow buses
because make it like this.
There's more sturdy, only a
very small containage try
themselves. He did say though,
he gave me another name on the
head. Followed up with it. Fuel
School District, MMS Saint
Mary, I think Beal is pretty
small on the smaller school
district. Um they charge $50 a
sport and that's good and I
don't know. I'm just a help
cover some of the costs. So,
field trips, those are funded
by the PTO, PTA, sponsored
men's school, you know, the the
sports, co-curricular, CTE,
etcetera are covered on the
school covers those. That is
where I'm on. That's what I
found out on that one is that
there's a couple of different
ways to do it. So, we kind of
got is a 200 to 600 there's
potentially Grainesville for $2
and 50 cents a mile. Fuel looks
like $50 dollars a sport and
then they do he did stay with
that $50 of support because I
think part of the conversation,
the concern Swift Family
Center. You know, they'll have
it. And then that's where you
go. They went out to business
just a health sponsor. So
there's kind of a variety in
terms of
Jared's file. I'm going to see
if this is, can you see if this
is okay?
He, no. He did a comparison as
you might remember. Here's on
the left, the the columns D and
the the twenty twenty-two,
2023, actual twenty
twenty-three, 20twenty-four
were working. Um some of those
were related, you know,
identified places. People said
there were some interest in
coaches volunteering but they
also heard, you know, I kind of
I've heard that, you know, that
might be a hardship for some
and so, there two different
formulas here at the bottom and
at the bottom, it included 67
rows 67 through 77 are the
curricular or the other
additional activities and So,
on the left, the 3 hundred 96
thousand seven sixty-six
forty-two is the amount would
be needed, you know, that's
kind of based on this year in
the Pride last years amounts
and if we. I think it's just
Right. Fiscal year twenty 22,
2022 because it's part of the
two-year levy. So, the numbers
are probably pretty close but
this would, this was this year,
our 20, I shouldn't say we're
into a new year, but this is
twenty twenty-two, 2023, those
numbers are what were paid out
for coaches, in this, just
prior year, and it was roughly
on the levy, or the total
amount was 396 thousand seven
sixtysix, 42, the levy amount
was $399, thousand nine 72, the
difference on this side where
it was fully funded with there
was an additional $3, 205 and
58 cents that was left in the
fund. So, that's that was the
amount left in the fund that
was expressed that could be
carried forward. The next piece
under there, the 25% of 2022,
2023, the understanding was
that the board was interested
in trying to fund some
co-curricular, extracurricular
at one of our meetings and we
said 25%. So, that's why it's a
hundred and sixteen it. So, the
potential shortfall and this is
my adding these 81 and 82
because Jared didn't have it.
It would be a gap of two
hundred and eighty thousand
seven sixty-six. If we were to
try to do same rate as last
time, not change, not increase
those those amounts. And use
the difference included the
hundred and sixteen thousand.
Um there's gave us at 22 80,
000. On the other side, the
hundred and eightyone thousand
516 comes from not filling some
of these some of these position
or not. And not funding some of
these positions and so at the
end, and there would still be,
you know, do we raise for, you
know, music then up and up a
dead bed, drama, etcetera.
There's bunch of things that
weren't put in there but he
kind of came up with a rough
hundred and eighty-one thousand
five sixteen. Mike raised it,
you know, rounded off to 2
hundred thousand. Um but
there's a levy difference now.
There's the three hundred 99
972 of the last the 2020 to
20twenty2 levy. Those are the
different levies where there's
funds left over. Difference is
two hundred and eight teen, you
take the 116 away and you are
left with sixty5 thousand 5 17.
So, that leaves, you know,
that's one of them is fully
funded and one of them is you
know, more fully funded based
on last year's numbers. The
other one is asking people to
do more fundraising and asking
people If there's some people
who are coaches who are willing
to donate to the time, it's
kind of based on that. So,
those are the differences of
the
from there, I, as you know, we
still have to go through we
still have to figure out the
final budget. We don't know
what other additional moneys
would be there. Um hopefully in
the next week, I hopefully,
hopefully in the next week but
it looks like, I guess there
looks like there's going to be
some, you know, there'll be
some. Yeah. What it looks like,
don
gap where you're either $50 to
200 or $600 because right now,
we know we're in a hard spot.
We know either we're cutting
coaching staff or the community
is going to pitch in or we're
going to have sponsorships. Of
course, truthfully going to be
a mixture of all of these
things. Right. Yeah. It'll be a
mixture of all of them. So.
Absolutely. What he's, what
we're planning on doing so far.
Which I just, Leslie
So, just funding head coaching
positions, a flat rate of $3,
000, they have the option or if
they have the will, they can
donate that back into the fund
or sponsor kids that they want
to play.
I got this one. Um also booster
club. I just went to the
Booster Club meeting and I did
not see any of you there. Just
saying. Booster Club. So they
are starting to do they're
going to meet with Maws and
Paws of Newport. And they do a
tremendous amount of
fundraising. And so Booster
Club is also starting to do
their timber days. So if you
have the opportunity to go
volunteer you can help. Timber
Days is a huge fundraiser for
them. They're also looking into
Spartan cards. And so they're
into that and I don't know if
any of you have ever boughtten
a grizzly card from Newport but
it has a bunch of local
businesses, football team sells
em, and some of the other teams
sell them to fundraise for
their sport and it usually goes
over pretty well. So,
I did
have somebody curls.
Quick quick question. Yup. Is
the Booster Club five oh one C
three? Um they are in progress
of finishing that paperwork.
Okay. But I do have somebody
that is a 5013 C and we're
looking into adapting that to
help. Okay. With funding. But
I. It's still in progress.
Okay. So, I'm going to
Oh, yes ma'am. Um. Do you like
my back cover? Yes, that's why
I keep
you just said that it was just
a mixture of solution
Absolutely, yeah.
That we need $50 per students
to. And and that number
equally. Yup and that's that's
title nine. Usually, our
athletic director takes care of
that. So, we'll have to make
sure that we stay on top of all
of that information. Okay. Um
we also can just offer varsity
and junior varsity and then not
fill any C positions but
unfortunately, that means that
we probably will have kids cut
in certain but it's one year
and hopefully we can most
coaches are willing to really
want to work around that and
I've already gotten a lot of
outcry for people and that will
sponsor community members will
and businesses will sponsor
kids if we can keep it
manageable. So, I think I've
gotten the things that we just
talked about are mixture of
solutions and my sponsorship
$50 to EG, 250, a mile. Need to
know the participant number of
participants, title one and
then, you are starting to say
about Booster Club, the Booster
Club You all need to join
Booster Club. You, okay? Okay.
I won't be at the next one. So,
Wait, did I miss something? Uh
no, seriously though. They,
there was six people that
showed up to our booster club
to help with Timber Days. Let's
go, community. Let's, I mean,
before I had this last meeting,
there was probably 50 or 60
people here and. Yeah.
Everybody said they were
coming. Is there an issue with
them not being five oh one C
three? It seems like our board
chair was interested in that
once he found out. That's a non
profit. What? It's a non
profit. I absolutely know what
that means but is there a
problem with a non Having that
status. Yeah. If you wanted to
beautify 1 C-3, it's first of
all, I mean, It has specific, I
would say, it's much more It's
much more regular, I want to
say regulated wash. There's
things and specifics and. It
goes through time. Well, it
makes it tax deductible if it's
a 501 C three. Well, but some
of the community members might
not necessarily be deterred if
it's not tax deductible. What
is the issue that mister Durst
is going to bring up right now?
Well, so here's what I would
say. So, a lot of school
districts in the state have
foundations that are
specifically created that have
the school district as the sole
benefit defined benefici of the
foundation and when you're
talking about small-dollar
values, then, maybe the tax
advantage doesn't make a
difference but if you're
looking to have somebody donate
50, 000 to $100, 000, that tax
advantage makes a big
difference and so, their
decision is to whether going to
put their donor funds will
often time hinge on whether or
not they get a tax advantage
out of it or not. So, that's
that's the main reason. But the
school is not going to restrict
any fundraising. Well, no. No.
We won't. You're not, correct?
No. But I'm just but I think
that the larger point is
whether or not you can how do
you incentivize as much
voluntary giving as you can.
So, the other advantage of the
Pablo is one C3 is being if you
wanted to do a combination of
private donations, individual
donations and
Northwest Community Foundation,
other entities. If you want to
put a grant in. Yeah. Or even
the other ones. They're not
limited. One, two, three.
Foundations give money to
foundations. That's what they
do. So, that's why you you do
want, you know, it's it's it
takes a little bit longer it
takes a little bit but it in
the long run, if you're
going to
views in the future
established. It doesn't mean
that if they're but again, when
I was going back to the Booster
Club in the viscene of the
They've gotta have the mission
if they need an umbrella
otherwise, then, they have to,
if they are outside their
mission, then, all of a sudden,
they become, that becomes
taxable we have any taxes. And
there's definitely best
practices that we can formulate
off of. It's already been done
and you just put it under our
umbrella. And do you know the
problem was you've been
boosting club? Is it
Okay, so we need to know
because that's a big thing is
that the mission what is it? Um
It needs to be broad enough.
Or defined in a to cover what
people would like it to, you
know, what it, what, would
people because otherwise
athletic programs already do
have 501 C three status and if
it would help because it it's
kind of all or nothing, the
youth programs can accept these
larger donations and pay to
play in these facilities so
that we can still make ends
meet for this short term. Maybe
we should make a we know
brainstorm a list of local
family 501 C three is possible.
Just a list of who might be in
the here besides Booster Club
just to get a sense. Does that
make sense to people? PYRS.
Yeah. So, what am I, what am I
calling these organizations?
So, you've got PYRC which
stands for. Priest River Youth.
Yes. I answer these questions.
I spelled it wrong here.
Chest. Okay.
Okay, and then the booster club
We've got PTOs.
For a young priestly
on the elementaries, Idaho
Fidel.
Are there junior high and high
school were sort of Priest
River Ute Little Guys
Wrestling. What is it? Priest
River Youth or Priest River.
Little Guys Wrestling Club. L G
P R L G. PRLG WC. WC. So, that
Priest River LG for. Little
guys. Little guys. Okay. And
girls.
You can put Free Stover Junior
Tackle in there. I'm not
positive that it's a five oh
one
two. Sandpoint offers a program
for homeschool kids that attend
one day a week but they get to
count those as attendees. Um it
would be very nice if we can
try to do something like that
as well here and and that might
provide some additional funding
that can sponsor the
co-curricular activities too.
Um so, use this as an example.
Yes. Okay
and those are more broader
things like farm steady,
homesteading, lots of other
things that are useful in life
outside of textbooks and that
kind of match with our rural
area. And that might be sort of
this would be sort of falling
into the four day though too,
right? A little bit or the
fifth day of the four day. Very
possible, yeah. Fifth I I know
families from Priest River
traveled to Sandpoint right now
because it's available there
and not here.
This is like a mission
statement Yeah. And I'm
thinking what? And I have to
look at their timing. We have
also I mean some things to look
at. I don't know there's to my
name. I would say organizations
and I'm just with the
organizations and and the
funding. Entities The other one
might be the Idaho Community
Foundation
There's
the league, there's the
women's league and I don't
want to draw off. We don't
want to draw off from other
things that people may be using
but there's the the Women's
League or the can't remember
the name of the group over his
handpoint that people have done
a smaller scale but I know that
the teachers the schools have
been using that. So, we also
want to be careful about not
tapping into be competitive
with those other activities.
There's also a bigger one to
say it used to be in the
Northwest. That was his former
name and
That's one in Spokane. It's a
bigger foundation. Those might
be opportunities to see if they
want to expand. Yeah. And and
it would be It has a new name
and I'm trying, it's begins
with a Can't remember. I can
look it up pretty quickly. Um
this is the old, this is the
old name here.
So, you know, that would be one
area to look at maybe either
for grants or avenues and put
money. Um. The Innovia
Foundation? That's cool. Yeah.
That's it's now Novia. In Opia?
Yeah. It it's in. Obaia
Yeah. That that sounds great.
Um that's the best
So, those would be
possibilities. Um I guess the
next part
What else do we need to kind of
brainstorm
I really think we need to talk.
What? I mean what's stopping us
from doing another legging?
Even for the August legging. I
feel like that's something
that's extremely imperative.
So, let me give you the
timeline on the levy. I know
this is product. The final levy
has to be approved. The
paperwork has to be to the
board clerk appointment this
hand. Yeah. And that's and you
have to do a board resolution.
We have to figure out what goes
on and we have to hold another
meeting. We would have to
notice it appropriate and and
it and I called up, I did call
the county to see if there was
any ways, you know, flexibility
on that date. Um there isn't.
It's a hard cast and obviously,
we would have to get in So,
realistically, basically,
there's no way to condemn it.
You know, given that. Even
though it would have been a
smaller one, it's just too many
pieces to put together at one
time. So, I really. What's the,
what's the, it's up to the
board, but if you do in
November, if you do want to, if
we do a levy in November, that
actually goes into the next
year. Which would still be fun.
I think that, that is
definitely something that if we
start working on that now to
potentially implement for
November levy. It would be
helpful. Yeah and I think all
of this brings to an extinct
people want to do. You know,
that pay to play, you know,
looking at, here's the plan and
the ideas. Well, the next full
board meeting is on the third
third west, 21st, Are you gone?
Yeah
but we would hopefully but
maybe we could come up with a
proposed, you know, like some
thoughts about what we, you
know, to the full board. Yeah.
And bring it to the full board.
Um and by then, we should know,
you know, we should know what
the budget where, you know, how
much is needed but the other
thing is, I don't know how I
say it's, you know we know
something's needed probably. We
also, you know, there may be a
need for the fifth day because
we never really did a good deep
dive into the fifth day for the
community as well as we really
should Even if our moneys were
raised now, that, you know, if
you look at it as both
extracurricular, co-curricular,
and fifth day
Mister Durst did did the Boys
and Girls Club? Cuz I know
you're familiar with that.
Would they be another avenue
for collecting? Yeah. My wife,
my wife
and she's got connections
within her
might never know but my wife
assistant Dixon, the CEO of
world and so she contacted the
executive director down there
and so, we're talking to them
about the options of bringing
and have a couple of satellite
offices. So, what happens in a
lot of areas is they have a
you'll have a hub facility or
two that you'll probably the
population density and then
what you'll have is you'll have
apparatus that exist within one
of the boys and girls clubs are
actually independent from the
national
they
and so they can operate in
So, what would likely happen is
that the executive director
from Coeur d'Alene would be the
executive director for the
program up here but they would
have, they would like to set on
campus in Priest River and
maybe one, you something like
that thing about whether it's
going to be So, that's another
avenue that we could out to tie
in but I guess the next piece
would be to sort of on a to-do
list
Margie, do you know off top of
your head what the cutoff date
is for running a levy in
November? It would be four to 5
days before November. Or the 45
days before that November 6th.
That vote. And I I can't speak
to the full board but I know
that you know there's a good
chance. They think there's a
chance that we would be talking
about that. As I said we can't
talk on behalf of the whole
board. But with the legislature
saying that you can't run a
levy in March now. We either
have to be fashioned the seat
back again doing this in May
next year for the next
following year or we have to
try and come up with something
in the I guess my preference is
going to be, I don't know if we
can do it but try to come up
with something in November even
though it's way up there
because if it doesn't pass in
November, then we but they took
away that March 8th and that
just we were the dry run on
that because we didn't we
couldn't do it in March this
year apply their business. Um
but every other school district
now is going to be in the same
place. They're either going to
run it in November. They'll try
running it in November or
they're going to came along
there. Cuz that's where we're
at. Which is really, you know,
kind of scary. I mean, what
we're facing. So, that's that's
the difference. Um, we'll have
to hopefully, you know,
hopefully, we'll go through
this process, figure out what
we've got. If I look at the
other things that we're look at
it. So, I guess one of the
things is
play, pay
to play We need to
figure out where that form is.
There's a form that we have for
reservation using the facility.
I'll try to get hold of that
one
did not
pay to play but that
would be reser sort of. It's
kind of using, there's a
reservation format. Facilities.
Facilities form. Facilities
used for and that's what we
need to look at. Uh maybe
propose looking at that a
little bit more closely. Um and
seeing
I mean like there's a couple of
things that happen that the
junior high using the gym,
using the auditorium that has
just been part of the community
contribution. What we need to
look at is, is that something,
you know, proposed? Is there
something there that we could
at least make a on that 190 is
how many events it might be I
don't know if we can get this
and this is again I'm sorry
mister Durst with your you know
because for the numbers is how
many event can we find out how
many events are abused I'm
assuming all those facilities
documents are maybe in one
place and what we need to
figure out is how many maybe
how many do we do in a year
generally? And then, look at
them, kind of look at them and
see who's using them and is it
something, you know, is it
something to compose? So, how
many sort of events I'm not
sure if we're going to have
active What's that? I don't
know that there's going to be
accuracy with that. I know that
we've done facility use forms
but they haven't always been
respected like when it when a
facility use form is submitted
depending on the school they
have precedence over others
other schools age group age
group wise right Yeah. So I
don't know how how effective
polling those would be to
really determine how often the
facilities are needed. Possibly
yeah. I don't know. I I don't
expect hard facts a
guesstimate, a community You
know, it's, is it five? Right.
Or is it twenty? Right. That's,
I mean, even just getting that
sense of how many might be
used. You know, just that maybe
something for those, you know,
the boards again to look at,
the general speakings
and then that's separate from
When people use what they have
at priestly, people use the
volume the gym up there was
always basketball in the winter
time. I think I'm trying to
think of hey actually I do pay
a little bit but what we would
want I think at minimum is to
cover the maintenance and
utilities at minimum of
for the junior high, correct?
Yeah. Yeah. Um she says, a
shitload of facility use forms.
So, She's headed on the table.
Yeah. Okay. She's headed this
way to explain it in further
detail but yes, lots. Okay. So,
junior high, I won't say what
she said but. Yes. A lot.
So, that would be, you know,
that's one area and help me
because the principal has
something to do with it. Yes.
Yes. Yup. Yup. You have to fill
our lunch. There should be a
spreadsheet. I'm assuming that
somewhere down ahead of
district office
Yeah. Cuz usually we would
submit it to like one of the
front desk ladies at the
elementary school. They would
approve it through Lynn and
Ken, I believe. Yeah. Right.
And then once it was approved,
we'd move to the next step and
then we had the gym or not. So.
So, there's another place. I
mean, these weren't big dollars
but every dollar counts so
healthy because there's
different types of events
There's sports events So, we've
got, I don't know I mean, when
you play sports, you know, when
you use the gym at the junior
high, and he takes forward
event. Do you do facilities use
one? Yes. So, you all do. Okay.
You're supposed to that it's
yeah. So, I think that before
we go maybe we should just
contact the district office and
find out where dominant health
facilities administrator but
maybe there's some avenue maybe
that I would know or
I want to say there's some sort
of stretch
let's try to sort of the big
glue together handle on that in
some way to figure it
So, we've kind of looked at and
this would be would this
technically be pay to play as
well. Are we calling this? Or
is that a little different?
And
So, Lake Fundraised School
District
They put it up with my
Do you have a WW?
It's
Yes. Slash performance. Slash
performance
depart
ceilings. I'll look it up and
put it in the notes so people
have a heart attack. You know,
we've got a link to it. Um but
I'll delete all double check
this one.
So, I know people, is there
anything
Hey, I have one question really
quick. When it comes to the
facility, this forms? when it
comes to each individual sport,
would the so say basketball
season, right? It's coming up.
Would they do one form for the
full season knowing their dates
of the games and stuff and they
give you and then do a lump sum
for that form or will they pay
each individual gain or will
they have to fill out each
individual form? Does that make
Yeah. Will be just one form for
the season and then this is the
amount of money that it will
cost you to use this facility
for your season or will it be
each game one form and five
bucks. Yeah.
Right. I I feel like it would
be easier on everyone to dos.
One form for the season and
then a lump sum for the use of
that facility.
Not only keep the door safe I
would say, you know, again, it
could be, we could do option A,
option B I think paperwork was.
One fourth for the season,
right? And then. Yes. That. I
mean, amen. I think we did, we
still do, you could still
present a Canadian option B
which one seems to make more
sense. Yes. Um there may be one
that makes more female. It
could make one. Well, on the
form, it could be option A,
option B, you know, and say,
because it may make sense in
some cases to do it one game at
a time. Right, because
basketball season, let's say
you go through the season and
you fill out your season and
then and then we would just do
if we make it to districts and
we happen to be holding
districts, then, we would do
another form for the district
dates and here's the amount for
the gym time during that. Or
exactly and then you do your
separate form because there was
a makeup game. And it sounds
like has really a good form to
follow. You know, all I will
I'll be sure to try to also
download that and maybe we can
look at I don't know if we can
do this set up. I don't know if
this is appropriate but it
could be that we could of
Google. I don't know how to
quite hear. Likes I have to go
through the board but figure
out a way for people to look at
this information if we were
fully gathered for people like
a Google Drive Google Drive.
You know, if they could put as
we're working through this, we
could, you know, as long as
there's no confidential
information creative, a folder
that some of these ideas or
even there could be a grants
folder where we could put in
information, you know, could do
a report on the front doing you
know, some of those
applications what those
applications look like they
have all of their forms online
and
fill it out.
Attached to it. So, we'll just
have to
and
the depth of testimony. You
should put it on the webpage
and everybody's got access to
it. And I would say
Okay. So, yeah, that's what I'm
saying. Okay, so it's nineteen
because I was trying, I know
the twelfth next Wednesday and.
Awesome. Thank you. Um that was
not interesting. So, what I'm
thinking is we would want to
get the announced together as
much as possible and sort of a
general outline. Maybe put
together by next week because
then it gives the other board
is board
Can somebody look at that
And I will take these notes up
and I can kind of what I do for
work is
volunteers over there? Or
anybody could have, okay,
here's the idea. Anybody good.
We have to, Caroline and I
would like to request it will
be accepted but if somebody who
likes to do PowerPay
presentations who likes to
create weapon, you know, of,
does anybody have a tenth like
they really like I'll do my
best.
So, if you just start the
format, then we'll get the
and it's just being filled with
all the information that we're
of the things that we're
wanting to bring to the table
to question organizations like
that. Yeah, no, because I was
thinking that if you would take
this information, I'll take
these notes up again. Oh. If
people are willing to think of
just the form. Oh, no, no. Just
the sports form? Oh, no. I was
thinking, I actually, I was
thinking of doing, we had a
nice PowerPoint to see if we
could get on the agenda for the
19th that we could put through
it and that could be a handout.
Um but I'm taking, I would type
up the notes but the thing with
me is that what we would
want to do Okay. And their
global viewers maybe if people
are some additional information
which we might have and I don't
know, I don't want to be
conflicting, you know, not sure
what our meetings look like
next week, but I know we're
going to have to have another
one coming up next week, is
that, maybe we can sort of fine
tune, given the additional
information that we've had,
that we can and I guess it's
kind of rushed that it's kind
of an iterial
Why don't we think about this?
You read of the the shorthands
of everything we've covered.
I'll merge it, summarize it,
went and took our See if we can
get something approved.
Clients, getting online access
to the
hesitation for the because
they're going to start moving
real quick. Yeah. Cheerleading,
junior time, and next month
that
So, we've gotta get on this. We
do get Sir.
I'll I'll do I'll do some
initial research of the grants
that we listed. Um you know,
some of the further out remote
ones, I'll do that because we
don't want to forget the
co-curricular stuff. So, those
might be more appropriate. So,
I'll research those. And then I
think we need to figure out
somewhere in there that needs
to be figured out which
avenues, you know, might be the
booster for the sports. It
might be another one for the
COVID
Do you want three forms for
high school, junior high,
elementary, or do you want each
one listed on one form so they
could check say we want this
facility? It needs to be.
Can they just fill in which
facility they want to use and
turn it into the power to be?
Yes. Normally, it's the
facility and then, but it's
pretty detailed as we find out
who is taking over right now,
the facilities because we don't
have one right now
That's cool. Okay. I have to.
Perfect. Okay. So,
Brandon who's winning these two
years we try to get the forms
or through Brandon facilities.
Well, foreign facilities is
probably overwhelm
So, we already have a form.
Okay.
Get together
I had a question from an
outside source watching. Yes.
Um and the question was, can
all the coaches in PRYSO
pre-sugar youth sports board
members do the PowerPoint?
The only reason why I'm saying
I hesitate is that it that's
extracurricu
lar that doesn't
cover Perfect. That's that
would be, it doesn't mean that
they can't, they can't, they
can't. I mean, we can be
together
and then. I'll ask if she heard
that. And I, I mean, I don't
have anything if people want to
tag Tina to do a presentation.
I just don't want to forget the
co-curricular. Nope. Have any
other piece of this that we
haven't addressed? But I think
we may have to wait a little
bit. The other piece down here
is the SRO and people were
concerned about that. I think
we need to finish our budget
first. Yeah. And then they see
where we, I think, let's see
where we are with that one and
we may be able to, you know,
also look for other
for that Even if we can fund
our SRO for six months and we
run a small
and accept chickens. Actually,
I do accept two payments right
now, right? What's that? SRO,
does this city need two I think
that's what I read as a
contract. Is that really was?
Yeah.
So she'll still
next year originally the plan
and it
that we might need to also I I
definitely think of that. We
need to reach out to them to
sort of participate, you know,
think about. To let them know
that it might be different this
coming up year. Is it they
living district? As anyone is
registered in our school So, we
can't charge them to come in
and do an art calls because No,
we're talking sports. Right?
All it takes to do your sports.
And he would charge. No.
Everyone. No, we're just
letting them know like, hey,
you're you play softball every
year. You come down from the
lake and you play softball with
us. This year, our girls might
have to pay fifty. You might
have to pay fifty. They're
going to have to pay 50 as
well. As long as it's getting
involved. Yes, as long as it's
across the board. Correct. We
can. Yes. Absolutely. Yeah.
Right. Words there.
Sorry.
Davis isn't here. Try it. I was
talking to her. I know. I felt
it. I also felt the mauve look.
I got super sweaty. Does
anybody have a connection? I
mean, we we probably, does
anyone have a connection with
this sort of a group? So, the
home school Lord House of Lord,
we know how to reach out to.
But I'm just thinking that they
might want to be aware that we
are and and they might want to
help figure out the solution.
Um, that we, you know, it's,
it's just, we're trying to
build architect and see what
they're doing. Cuz I think
that's the thing is that if
they're not aware of it, they
should probably should be aware
of it. They may come up with
some ideas. Definitely, you
know, I wouldn't want to
exclude them. I don't I
wouldn't want to really exclude
them in
Anything else at this time? I
know Carla and I jumped you
from page two to page seven. I
have one quick question. My
question. Are you serious? Nope
When you were talking about the
resource officer, I don't know
if it was on that page of the
one before. Sorry. I'm sorry.
I'm sorry. It was very brief.
Um a couple board meetings ago,
you talked, I don't remember if
it was you or Carlin talked
about going to the city and
negotiating his contract. Did
that ever happen? Yes. We
started it. It stalled because
of negotiation in the budget.
Okay. Okay. Yeah. We we've got
it. We've got something
proposed by the city. We can we
have to figure out the time
Okay.
The 19th. Um. Okay. So, it it
that we've gotten something
back. We need to put those into
the the board. Yeah. Um we have
to see where it falls in the
budget. Okay. So, and they were
trying to figure out a few more
and everything. So, that we did
do what we. I'm good with that
answer. I just wanted to know
if it went. I'll just put it on
the east
something else. Products? I I
never heard what happened with
the grant that Ken applied for.
Did that ever come into
anything? That was a like a
facilities grant for rural
schools. Facilities grant for
rural schools? Over like three
Was it with Ken?
Approximately within. This
should have been in April that
they would have found out.
This would be a different one
than that one.
Because he was supposed to find
out April 15th and it never got
re addressed or brought back
up. Well, if he, if probably
didn't get it but it would be
worth it. It was a big
facility. Yes, it was
specifically for rural schools
for facility and maintenance,
buildings that were in need of
repair. And he worked with
Avista and all the utility
companies around here and they
said emitted a very large
packet that they spent quite a
lot of time on it just. And now
we did
He was excited about it. Do you
even have any
Is that the grant that
think that might be
by April 15th. Okay. It's
going to become available like
June. I wouldn't be. Yeah.
That's when they jumped out.
So, Saint Mary's, I think. Lady
Saint Mary's received it. Well,
Jenna, it was like 500 million
and it was going to go to
multiple schools. That'd be it.
Good job, Sandra. Good job. But
the Kalispell Tribe has been
very, you know
reaching out to. I preach. I
could put that on my list. It's
nobody if somebody else wants
to but I've reached, I've
reached out to them
I can put that on the grid. You
may not have it immediately but
it will be all all these If a
grant like that came available,
who would be the first like
contact person? For what?
But the board would have to
accept it, correct?
I guess he he Susie's still
has been doing. It would be a
potentially a federal grant and
you're right. I think the board
would have to when if it were
if it had come through at least
even one of those bothering
nonprofit
even on the AD and PED
Anything else if you look at
those lists or whatever I don't
know. We have, I don't want to
drag this out if we don't. Um
want to keep people here
longer. We've done a
is potentially 7 o'clock. 659.
At what
point do we start
accepting donations? Because I
know that there's been question
as far as actually taking them
in. So, when, I mean, people
are coming forward and wanting
to donate money. It's kind of
great. When when do we?
That should if she's able to
form an easy form. Those that
processes two or three weeks to
get done and then she'll get
IRS accommodation letter and
once that happens, then,
they're eligible to start
receiving donations once they
set up
already got PIN done. She's
already got the corporation
done.
And once that's finished then
she's working I would say. So,
she's got
So, that's one more but what
we're working, we're working on
maybe one more is to try to
figure out which you know, do
you want to get to the booster?
Maybe we can get then it most
likely would come back into the
but and therefore being a five
on my CD three. I don't know
how quickly IRS is going to
turn around at 1022 BC.
Yeah. So, the EIN numbers, your
employment identification So,
it would be don't know how
quickly. Um. Mike, I had a few
weeks with Right. When was
that? Well, that was that was
my last
So I think some of the fear is
people wanting to donate money
but being worried about who's
who's in control of the money.
Right. At this point. Because
unfortunately we have a lot of
broken trust in our community.
So, who you trust that's taking
in and starting organizations,
not to say anybody that's
starting them, we don't trust.
But I think that that's a valid
thought that. No. I mean well
that's I guess that's really
what you need. Wait. That's why
it's so important with the way
the art incorporation are
written
then that's hard. The other
thing you can do is one of the
benefits of oil is you can
actually earmark your family
Let's say for example, you
support Shear and you want to
donate
donate $5, 000 to the chair for
and specify that specifically
to be given
but that's why it's really
important
I think one of the issues is
that if there is a caravan when
they're generated and having
been part of running a a
non-profit for a number of
years and being part of them
for a number of years. Um the
thing is that I think people if
you're starting enough a
startup organization you've got
a learning curve. And I would
not want to dump a couple
hundred thousand dollars into a
into a non-profit that is just
starting up and and don't even
know the board of directors.
And knowing that whether they
have the oversight and
understanding the nuances and
understanding that if you go
get money from somebody in
Washington state, if you
actually go out and solicit it,
you might have to register in
Washington State or if you go
for money in California, you
better probably solicit. So,
there's all these rules and
regulations. that people don't
know about. So, I think the
thing is to try you know, is is
to, that's where we kind of
have to look at what we've got
and make some phone calls but
to try to find an avenue
this doesn't doesn't mean that
Liz doesn't maybe donate then
maybe money donated over there
or donated somewhere else but
to find an avenue, an entity
that has the capability mind
and understand what it means
Great. Mister Dursten, she have
experience in helping out with
this early birth of a
nonprofit. Are you willing to
help the Booster Club?
The the Booster Club as well?
Yeah. Okay. I was just guessing
too. Because it's important we
don't do too many. Mister
Trump's been around a while. I
just yeah and it just feels
like a super organization at
every school. Really? Just
starts. Well, right. What's
already working? Yeah. We have
a program that's there. Why are
we not using that in this
place? Uh
panels but I don't have all
that information. I just I'm
the only person
I'm sorry. We should say I've
I've been advising her last
week or so about kind of
different things.
I mean, because I've got some
background in this stuff
and so
and I think the difference
between Liz is is that she
started out. It was the fifth
day of trying to for the fifth
day. The Booster Club and
correct me, the Booster Club
may be only for the or is it
all schools it's just mostly
coming. So, you know, we've
only got one area here but
we've got this whole other
area. So, each, that's why we
have to kind of, okay, we just
did a list. Maybe I'll do a
major and maybe I'll try to do
a spreadsheet so we know where
those, you know, who's got, who
can cover what? Because again,
just those two kids.
Don't want t
o speak for anybody
but myself. My concern isn't
with the nonprofit large tons
of money too. My concern is
when we give it if presented to
this because if we're hurting
for money and if the school
district declares a state of
financial emergency, they can
deplete whatever funds
necessary to fill in those
gaps. So, my concern isn't with
giving it to boost your club or
what Liz has got going on. My
concern is when we give those
large sums of money, sums of
money to the district itself.
Are those going to be
protected? Because yes, if
there, they're laws and
whatnot. They're saying yes.
This is binding. This is to
only go to the music program.
But what is stopping the school
from saying this is now a
financial emergency. We need
that for. So.
Can handle it is. You get them
up this time. You give so much
every month. Period. You limit
your liability. Or you give a
quarter on what we're going to
donate this amount this
quarter. You don't get you
know, be prudent, you know, for
some grants, federal grants,
you have to go seek a
reimbursement. And maybe that
there's, okay, we pay this much
or it could be upfront, or it
could be, where we paid this
multiple seeking reimbursement
on it, and that you're not
drawing down the wolf. You're
you're you're knowing that
maybe you're spending less than
you thought. And maybe that
that would be the maybe that's
under options.
Philippines. Yeah, I don't know
if you've seen it that way too.
You can with the donation
agreement basically that that
is that something that the 501
C3 would come up with. There's
actually. And it would be a
condition of receiving that the
federal government for example
was again granted. We have to
maintain a nonprofit can do the
same thing and there would be
if the if it's if it's done
correctly
those funds if they want to
spend
have, you could do different
types of famous schedules. I
mean, I think it's up to what
people feel comfortable. You
don't have to do. The only
thing about the encumbrance,
yes, all of a sudden, you're
doing that. My guest, even
though it was designated into
the X, Y, and Z. there is
always that fear of, did they
actually pay X, Y, and Z or do
we have to go back and find out
if they actually paid extra
vitamin C? If you wanted your
control that would be a choice.
I mean, that could be another
blockage. Do you want, you
know, we're getting this? Do
you want to do, do you want a
monthly agreement? Do you
want to do a quarterly? School
District open to sort of
submitting a reinvented first
minute request at the end
knowing that this is it. That's
actually what they do in
Grangeville. She said, they do
$2 and fifty cents a mile for
the support. They pay for it
and then they go and then they
being paid for a vaccine Yes. I
just want to make sure whatever
money the community is raising
or donating is protect That's
my biggest fixture. This. So, I
guess it's bad.
Didn't feel like we're sort of,
anyone have anything, anyone
here
Do you have any input you'd
like to give? Anyone else, is
there anything that people want
run the football club which
they looked into
I think that's kind of what
again I'm going back to
Grangeville. That's where I got
these
you know, and all of the money.
Yeah, and. They want to take
donations so they can
is what I'm thinking of is
might be a role on the subject.
Put these notes together. I
don't know if I'd have it in
time just to try to create a
matrix in a spreadsheet that
listed the entity the type of
revenue that it is list what
sports are under and then, you
know, maybe it could be taken
over and mister Durst may have
something that he's familiar
someways. I think we want to
track, but you know, we kind of
want to track the moneys are.
Uh obviously, how much is money
is being raised, what's being
raised but I think, you know,
that's where we're coming down
to when we put this all
together think that they, you
know, present this out to the
community and see which one
might
is and it might not be direct
it's a start and it might need
to be because I know people
I'm donating $5000 and it's
going to only do that we came
back into was title nine. Dip
dip. We gotta make sure we
gotta do a cross check and
somebody has to do a cross
check of the title mind. So,
make sure that would be the,
that aspire with the nuances of
them. So, that would be the,
that would be the So,
hopefully,
feel
like we maybe may Starting
to get a little clear
and I think we'll know more how
much it's going to and that
would be that that's the next.
Unfortunately, hopefully we can
get that hammered out.
I
don't know. I think we all
hope it's going to be next
week. I mean, we don't, we had
to attend meeting set and stuff
but we have negotiations
but we're going to push it out
and try to get, you know, we
might be eating pizza until
midnight but hopefully not. I
hope that we're we're committed
to try to
Okay, I will, unless anybody
has anything else, we'll just
close this down. Thank you take
care. Thank you for your time.